
The most common LCD (liquid crystal display) component is the LCD1602 which is a alphanumeric device displaying text against a lighted background. Display is in 2 rows, each with 16 
column characters.\\n
Most LCD's compatible with the Arduino has the Hitachi's HD44780 which functions as a dot matrix, controller and driver. To understand more on how the display is done in the matrix 
of cystals in your LCD, you can refer to the HD44780's datasheet from the link provided. Understanding will be helpful later when you embark on more challenging projects.\n
Interfacing with the Arduino is through the 16 pins on the HD44780 on the LCD1602.\n

 DESCRIPTION
THERE IS DIFFERENCE BETWEEN I1C AND I2C

It is another great BLUE backlight LCD display.
This is IIC Serial 16X2 LCD module .
With this I2C interface LCD module, you will be able to realize data display via only 4 wires.
If you already has I2C devices in your project, this LCD module actually cost no more resources at all.
It is fantastic for Arduino based project

SPECIFICATIONS

Interface: I2C
SDA (DATA) - analog input pin 4
SCL (CLOCK) - analog input pin 5
Pin Definition: GND、VCC、SDA、SCL
Backlight: Blue
Supply voltage: 5V
Contrast Adjust: Potentiometer
Backlight Adjust: Jumper

PACKAGE INCLUDES
1 x I2C 16x2 Arduino LCD Display Module - White on Blue 5V (1602A)

Everyone love the 1602 character LCD, is cheap and works out of box! But the need for 6 to 10 GPIOs is the pain :) It takes most of GPIO of Arduino and other microcontroller. 
Now with this I2C or Two wires interface LCD, you will save a lot of GPIO for your sensor and motor control.

This is a great blue backlight LCD display. As the pin resources of Arduino controller is limited, your project may be not able to use normal 
LCD shield after connected with a certain quantity of sensors or SD card. However, with this I2C interface LCD module, you will be able to realize data display via only 2 wires. 
If you already has I2C devices in your project, you can still program this LCD with the correct I2C address. It is fantastic for Arduino based project. 

Note: If the display is not clear (or blank), try to adjust the contrast level by tuning the on-board potentiometer.

Features:
I2C Address: 0x27 
Backlight (White character on Blue background) 
Supply voltage: 5V 
Size: 82x35x18 mm 
Come with I2C interface

5161BS single digit LED 7 segment common anode display

Seven segment displays come in a wide variety of sizes and colors. Red, blue, and green are the easiest colors to find. Sizes range from small 0.56 inch displays up to
large 4 inch and even 6.5 inch displays. Some displays have a single digit, and others have two or four.

Seven segment displays consist of 7 LEDs, called segments, arranged in the shape of an “8”. Most 7-segment displays actually have 8 segments, with a dot on the right
side of the digit that serves as a decimal point. Each segment is named with a letter A to G, and DP for the decimal point:


Seven segment displays are used in common household appliances like microwave ovens, washing machines, and air conditioners. They’re a simple and effective way to display numerical 
information like sensor readings, time, or quantities. 
In this tutorial, we’ll see how to set up and program single digit and multi-digit seven segment displays on an Arduino.

see Circuit Basics's very good explanatory article

There are two types of 7-segment displays – common cathode and common anode.

COMMON CATHODE DISPLAYS
In common cathode displays, all of the cathodes are connected to ground and individual segments are turned on and off by switching power to the anodes:

COMMON ANODE DISPLAYS
In common anode displays, all of the anodes are connected to Vcc, and individual segments are turned on and off by switching power to the cathodes:

